Identification of the problem and Determination of its PEAS
Descriptor. 


Performance Measure:
If the objective function to judge the performance of the agent, things we can evaluate an
agent against to know how well it performs.
Environment:
It is the real environment where the agent need to deliberate actions. What the agent can
perceive.
Actuators:
These are the tools, equipment or organs using which agent performs actions in the environment. This
works as output of the agent. What an agent can use to act in its environment.
Sensors:
These are tools, organs using which agent captures the state of the environment. This works as
input to the agent. What an agent can use to perceive its environment
PEAS Descriptors Examples/Problems
1. PEAS descriptor for Automated Car
Driver: Performance Measure:
● Safety: Automated system should be able to drive the car safely without dashing
anywhere.
● Optimum speed: Automated system should be able to maintain the optimal speed
depending upon the surroundings.
● Comfortable journey: Automated system should be able to give a comfortable
journey to the end user.
Environment:
● Roads: Automated car driver should be able to drive on any kind of a road ranging
from city roads to highway.
● Traffic conditions: You will find different sort of traffic conditions for different type
of roads
Actuators:
● Steering wheel: used to direct car in desired directions.
● Accelerator, gear: To increase or decrease speed of the car.
Sensors:
● To take input from environment in car driving example cameras, sonar system etc. 


2. PEAS descriptor for playing soccer.
Performance Measure: scoring goals, defending, speed
Environment: playground, teammates, opponents, ball
Actuators: body, dribbling, tackling, passing ball, shooting Sensors:
camera, ball sensor, location sensor, other players locator
3. PEAS descriptor for Exploring the subsurface oceans of Titan.
Performance Measure: safety, images quality, video quality
Environment: ocean, water
Actuators: mobile diver, steering, break, accelerator
Sensors: video, accelerometers, depth sensor, GPS
4. PEAS descriptor for Shopping for used AI books on the Internet.
Performance Measure: price, quality, authors, book review
Environment: web, vendors, shippers
Actuators: fill in form, follow URL, display to user
Sensors: HTML
5. PEAS descriptor for playing a tennis match.
Performance Measure: winning
Environment: playground, acquet, ball, opponent 

Actuators: ball, raquet, joint arm
Sensors: ball locator, camera, racquet sensor, opponent locator
6. PEAS descriptor for practicing tennis against a wall.
Performance Measure: hit speed, hit
accuracy Environment: playground, racquet, ball,
wall Actuators: ball, racquet, joint arm
Sensors: ball locator, camera, racquet sensor
Question:
1. Chess Playing Agent
● Performance Measure: Win rate, number of moves to checkmate, strategic accuracy,
opponent's rating (if playing against real opponents)
● Environment: Chessboard, chess pieces, time control, opponent
● Actuators: Move chess pieces (physically or on-screen)
● Sensors: Piece position on the board (via a camera or virtual input), game state (board
configuration, clock)
2. Stock Market Trading Agent
● Performance Measure: Profit/loss, portfolio return, number of successful trades, riskadjusted return
● Environment: Stock market, stock exchange platforms, market news, historical data 